---
layout: article
title: Product Overview
categories: [photon-server, photon-cloud, getting_started]
tags: [overview, quickstart]
---
{% include globals %}


Overview
--------

On the client side, Photon supports various platforms. Even though
programming in C, C\# and Flash are very differnet things, the basic
workflow stays similar. In this online documentation, we try to explain
the concepts and background, while language specifics are left to the
reference documentation per platform.

Each Photon Client SDK comes with a fitting reference documentation for
its platform and language.

Project Setup
-------------

On the client side, you need to include a single library to communicate
with Photon. Per platform, this is a different setup.

**DotNet**

In your DotNet project, add a reference to the PhotonDotNet.dll to make
its classes known. Import the lib's namespace with: using
ExitGames.Client.Photon;

**Unity3d**

In Unity, you need to import the PhotonUnity3D.dll into your project.
Simply open a Unity project/scene, open an explorer and drag and drop
the dll from <sdk\>\\libs\\debug\\ into the editor. Again, import the
lib's namespace with: using ExitGames.Client.Photon;

Workflow
--------

The simplified lifecycle for any multiplayer game looks like this:

-   Connect to server
-   Make RPC calls
-   Receive something
-   Dicsonnect

Pretty simple. Let's have a look at each step, assuming you use C\# and
the [Lite Application](/overview/basics).

#### Connect to server

In this step, you actually do a little more than just connect. In short:

-   Implement the interface IPhotonPeerListener in one of your classes
-   Create a LitePeer instance with your server's address
-   In your game loop, call Service() about 10 times a second
-   Now call Connect() to establish the connection. The Application Name
    should match one in the PhotonServer.config
-   Your implementation if PeerStatusCallback() is called when the
    connection is ready or failed
-   The returned status be StatusCode.Connect

The peer instance provides you with some methods to talk to Photon. It
does not have it's own thread. Instead it's updated when you call
Service(). This will keep the connection alive

We assume that Photon is running the "Lite" Application, which it does
by default.

#### Make RPC Calls

After connecting the client can call methods in the Lite Application
just about anytime it needs to. The methods available as "remote
procedure call" are called Operations.

Operation calls are asynchronous and won't block your game. They are
queued internally, until you intently send something by calling
SendOutgoingCommands. There will be a short delay until the result is
received. These results are defined per operation and are sometimes not
used at all.

-   Call OpJoin with any room name to get into a game
-   Wait for the callback: OperationResult with opCode: LiteOpCode.Join
-   Send any Hahstable with content by calling OpRaiseEvent. Other
    players in the room will receive events.

Joining a room and raising events in it is provided (server side) by the
Lite Application logic we use in this sample. You can use other
applications and implement your own operations.

#### Receive something

In the previous step, you already received an operation result. We
differentiate those from other incoming messages, so called events. Lite
will forward the event you raised to others in a room.

-   Receiving events will call IPhotonPeerListener.EventAction. The
    "evCode" will match the one you used in OpRaiseEvent

The client library will internally queue received packages, so your game
decides when to use them. EventAction() is called by your calls to
PhotonPeer.Service().

#### Disconnect

If a client is closed, it's best to disconnect. That's nice, but not a
must-have as a timeout will disconnect clients that don't answer
anymore.

-   To close the connection: call Disconnect
-   Check "disconnect" return in PeerStatusCallback with statusCode:
    StatusCode.Disconnect
-   Now the client can stop calling Service

LitePeer versus PhotonPeer
--------------------------

Aside from the LitePeer, the client libraries also include a PhotonPeer
which could be used. The PhotonPeer has the bare minimum of API needed
for Photon. It is the base for LitePeer, which adds Operations like
Join, Leave and RaiseEvent, which are available with the Lite
Application.

Reliable UDP
------------

Under the hood, Photon clients and servers send Operations and Events
via UDP. This guarantees low overhead, flexibility and performance but
is unreliable by definition.

Within the UDP packages, Photon uses a thin binary protocol to enable
aggregation, ordering, detection of packet loss and more. It is based on
eNet and used in similar form on client and server.

So called "commands" are used to transfer the payload, such as
Operations. On the client side, Photon gives you full control of when
commands are put into a UDP package and send.

As a result, the API also includes methods that manage the connection to
the server. Basically, there are two "layers": the "command layer" and
the "operation layer":

-   **Command layer:** manages the communication protocol to establish
    and maintain communication.
-   **Operation layer:** gives access to rooms, events and custom
    Operations. Client side, methods of this layer are prefixed with
    "Op".

### Reliable vs. Unreliable

With Photon's underlying protocol, everything that's sent across can be
made flagged as reliable or unreliable. The Operation request is not
changed by this, though, only the command that's used.

Photon keeps track of the ordering. Even unreliable commands are
synchronized/sequenced within the order of reliable commands. So an
unreliable command which was sent after a certain reliable command, will
also also be dispatched after the reliable command was dispatched (even
if that command was delayed).

Operations and Events that are sent as unreliable might get lost. As
example, this is no problem for position updates, which are quickly
replaced. On the server side, Operations that are received unreliable,
should not create a result: The client can't expect that the Operation
even reached the server.

Connection and Timeout
----------------------

The client has two rules to define a timeout:

-   **Retries**: A reliable command is sent multiple times to be
    acknowledged, each time the interval between retries gets longer,
    depending on general rountrip times. If the number of retries
    reaches a limit (in DotNet: SentCountAllowance), this causes a
    disconnect.
-   **DisconnectTimeout**: This defines a maximum number of
    milliseconds, before a reliable command must be answered. This is
    independent of the retry counting. In DotNet, the setting is:
    DisconnectTimeout.

The settings are described in more detail in the client API
documentation.
