---
layout: article
title: Licenses
categories: [photon-server, references]
tags: [overview, setup]
---
{% include globals %}


The Photon Server requires a valid license to start. The Server SDK
includes a trial license, which is valid for 30 days, so you don't have
to do anything immediately.

#### Free License

Photon can be used free of charge for up to 100 concurrent connections
(players that are connected at the same time). You can use the free
license even in commercial games and you can have any number of monthly
active users.

Get your free license here:
[http://www.exitgames.com/download/photon](http://www.exitgames.com/download/photon).

#### License Options

Once your project is growing past the 100 CCU limit of the free license,
you can [buy Photon licenses in our online
shop](http://shop.exitgames.com/). Smaller indie developers get a
discount.

Existing licenses can be upgraded for the cost difference to the new
one. Please contact us for that!

## Using the License

Photon uses .license files, which are provided by Exit Games. New
license files are simply copied into the folder where the Photon
executables are. Other .license files should be removed.

PhotonControl and the Photon Server will read the files on start, so a
new license currently requires a restart.

## Floating Licenses

Photon's "Floating Licenses" are not bound to hardware or IP. They will
run on any machine but need to contact our Floating License Monitor. On
start, this HTTPs call must succeed. The following hourly contact has to
succeed once every 24 hours. If the Monitor is not available for that
long, Photon will shut down.

#### The License Monitor

A Photon does not start witout contacting the License Monitor, we made
sure that our License Monitor is highly available. To achieve this, we
use the Google App Engine service, which is available 24/7.
